Patriotism means love and regard for the country. It is a natural instinct that men loves the place where he gets birth and where he is brought up. It is one of the noblest passions of human nature. The love of country is natural and essential for every one. Man is a social animal. He cannot live alone. He needs the assistance of other human beings. So the people belonging to one country are brothers and they work for the collective interest of the country. They struggle to flourish their country. The man, who works against the interest of his country, is traitor and he does not deserve any sympathy.

The only way to serve Pakistan is that we must be sincere with out country. We must keep our personal interest behind and we must give supreme importance to the demands of our freedom. Country is not just a piece of land. It is not only the collection of mountains, rivers and valleys. It is the heritage of our dreams, aspirations, culture, traditions and our great religion. We love Pakistan because it is the centre of our hopes and future dreams. It is the land of our following generation. We must try to make it strong and undefeatable castle of Islam.

Patriotism is an active virtue. The real love urges man to do every thing in his power for the welfare of his country. It makes him perform his duties honestly and devotedly. Patriotism makes him a good citizen, who is always ready to serve his nation with best of his talents. A good citizen is always ready to give sacrifices for his nation. Patriotism is a sacred passion, which makes the nation really strong and honorable. It is our duty to keep this passion alive in our hearts.

The great wars of the world were won only because of the extreme sense of Patriotism. Only those nations in the world survive and distinguish themselves, whose citizens keep a high and a very positive sense of Patriotism. Pakistan can become a really strong country, when the people of Pakistan are patriots in the real sense of the world. Give you love to your country and it will give you all the blessings.