To me patriotism is courage, honor, selflessness, loyalty, and true devotion to your country. It means laying down your life for those you love and for those you do not know. Patriotism is also the simple act of covering your heart when the Pledge of Allegiance is being recited. Patriotism could be pulling over for a soldiers’ procession.
I never knew the true meaning of patriotism until my cousin and my family friend sacrificed their lives defending our country. My family friend, Captain Joshua Meadows, laid down his life in Afghanistan when he and his soldiers came under fire. My cousin, CPL John Felix Farias, also lost his life in Afghanistan fighting the war on terror. I am very proud to have known them and call them my heroes.
I saw patriotism in my small town when news of Joshua’s death hit home. Flags were flown with pride, ribbons were tide around trees, and marquees of local businesses stated he was our home town hero. At the funeral of John Felix, I saw patriotism when hundreds and hundreds of people lined the streets to catch a glimpse of his motorcade. Patriotism was also seeing my great uncle salute his son’s casket.
Thinking of all these things makes me respect the moment of silence at school, the National Anthem before my softball games and any time I hear the Pledge of Allegiance. Patriotism is also feeling sad for those people that these men and women left behind. It is also being proud of those who have survived such tragedy. I have uncles, cousins, grandfathers, and friends who served this country as Marines, Navy Seals, Army and Air Force… and that makes me proud. Patriotism is not a term that should be tossed around lightly. That means being thankful for our freedoms that we sometimes tend to forget.
What is Patriotism? To me Patriotism means to love and respect your country, the flag and our leaders. To me it also means loving that we come together to celebrate for of 4th of July and Memorial Day. Like I said, some people do not know the true meaning of Patriotism, but I am proud to say that I know what Patriotism is. Remember to respect and ALWAYS love your country. I love this country and what it stands for.