Patriotism means love of one’s native land.  Just as we love our father and mother, so we love land of our birth.  This feeling is called patriotism.
But we find some people who love themselves more than they love their parents.  They think of their own happiness and comforts before the comforts and happiness of their father and mother.  Similarly, some people love their country less and love themselves more.  Such people are selfish.

                This should not be the case.  It shows an unfeeling heart and a selfish nature.  Just as it is the first duty of a child to love his home, so also it is the first duty of every one to love the land of his birth. A man owes much to the land of his birth. Just as he grows up in the lap of his mother, he is brought from making any sacrifice for his mother land when he is called upon to do so.  Who can forget the great sacrifices of Bhagat Singh, Subhash Chander Bose, Lala Lajpat Rai, Gandhi, Nehru and other freedom fighters who sacrificed their all for the freedom of their motherland? Such patriots are honoured very where in all ages.

                Patriotism is of two kinds: the first is a healthy one and should be encouraged while the second one is of an undesirable kind and should be condemned.  Healthy patriotism teaches us to love out county with all our heart and to do everything in our power to make our country happy, great and glorious.  IT tells us to build our glory on the ruins and suffering of other nations.  The first kind of patriotism is good for our country and for the world  The second kind of patriotism is bad for the world and will, sooner or later, be bad for the country that oppresses others.

                It is our duty to love the land of our birth.  It is also our duty not to hate other nations.  We must try to cultivate a healthy type of patriotism and to devote ourselves whole heartedly to the uplift and prosperity of our own country.  We must not have the perverted notion of patriotism that believes in the dictum : “My country, right or wrong.” Most of the crimes against humanity have been committed by people having this type of fanatic patriotism.  Patriotism must go hand in hand with internationalism.  One should never forget one’s duty towards humanity in general.  Such patriotism as encourages narrow, parochial fanaticism is a bad type of patriotism which has no place in a fastly progressing civilization of today.