Patriotism means a profound love of people to the nationality. It can also be explained as their devotion, I and reverence to the nation. It is a prime duty of a good to be loyal to his/her own country and do good for the same. Patriot has at the very least a sense of pride in his/her nation wishes for its good. One who serves his/her nation thoughts, words and deeds is always remembered and honored while one who betrays it is always reprimanded.
          Patriotism is not only a feeling but also a practice. It can be manifested in different forms and for different purposes. The very essence, a patriot strives to protect the national independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of his/her nation. A Sanskrit saying runs - ‘mother and motherland dearer than heaven.’ A patriot lives and dies for the nation Instead of being fascinated by attractive jobs abroad, he/she tries to find some useful job at home. Even outside, he/she is always attached to his/her nation. When required, he/she doe hesitate to sacrifice his/her life in defense of the nation nationalism.
          A patriot doesn’t run away or yield to foreign I power. But patriotism is not only the love for geography. It is also a service offered for the good of the nation. A patriot tries  to contribute in all possible ways to heighten the glory greatness of the nation. He/she knows the value of the of the nation's natural and cultural resources and contributes to their proper utilization and conservation. For a nationalist, personal gain lesser value. In crises, he/she works more actively to face the problems in order to revive the self-esteem.
          In addition, patriotism is also an attempt to be independent and self-reliant. A patriot doesn’t allow any outside interference. He/she is adherent to the constitution and other laws of the state. Patriotism makes people respectful to the rulers and tolerant to their fellow men. They contribute to mutual understanding, peace and unity of the nation. They always feel grateful and indebted to the nation. They never abuse power and never neglect duties.
          But a true patriot doesn’t embrace his/her country as it is. He/she opts for necessary reformations and changes. They fight against existing socio-cultural evils. Democratic achievements are very dear to them. They are always in favour of truth and justice. They raise voice against injustice and untruth. They are devoted for the defense of the country’s ideals.
          We know that fanatical nationalism engulfing several European nations brought them misery and shame in the 20th century. This means blind faith upon one’s country may be destructive. So a true patriot shows due respect to others’ nations, too. He/she protects the tradition, culture, norms and values but is ready to avoid their superstitious and evil traits. They would die for the nation, but would not let the nation die or them. Patriotism must come sacredly from the core of the heart and should not be guided by any selfishness.